doc/sources/guide/installation.rst, before:

.. _installation:

Installation
============

We try not to reinvent the wheel but bring something innovative to the
market. As a consequence, we're focused on our own code and use already
existing, high-qualitative third-party libraries where possible.
For the rich set of features that Kivy offers, several other libraries are
required. If you do not use a specific feature (e.g. video playback) you
don't need the corresponding dependency, however.
That said, there are one dependency that Kivy **does** require:
`Cython <http://cython.org>`_.
In addition, you need a `Python <http://python.org/>`_ 2.x (**not**  3.x)
interpreter. If you want to enable features like windowing (i.e., open a Window),
audio/video playback or spelling correction, you must install other
dependencies. For these, we recommend `Pygame <http://pygame.org>`_, `Gst-Python
<http://www.gstreamer.net/modules/gst-python.html>`_ and `Enchant
<http://www.rfk.id.au/software/pyenchant/>`_, respectively.

Other optional libraries (mutually interchangable) are:

    * `OpenCV 2.0 <http://sourceforge.net/projects/opencvlibrary/>`_: Camera input.
    * `PIL <http://www.pythonware.com/products/pil/index.htm>`_: Image and text display.
    * `PyCairo <http://www.cairographics.org/pycairo/>`_: Text display.
    * `PyEnchant <http://www.rfk.id.au/software/pyenchant/>`_: Spelling correction.
    * `Pygame <http://www.pygame.org>`_ : Window creation, image and text display, audio playback.
    * `PyGST <http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/ + http://pygstdocs.berlios.de/>`_: Audio/video playback and camera input.


Stable version
--------------

No stable version yet. Please be patient. Once we release a stable
version, we will provide packages for every supported platform that allow
you to simply download and run Kivy applications.


Development Version
-------------------

The development version is for developers and testers. Note that when
running a development version, you're running potentially broken code at
your own risk.
To use the development version, you will first need to install the
dependencies. Afterwards you have to set up Kivy on your computer in a way
that allows for easy development. For that, please see our
:ref:`contributing` document.

Installing Dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To install Kivy's dependencies, follow the guide below for your platform.

Ubuntu
++++++

For Ubuntu, simply enter the following command that will install all
necessary packages:

::

    $ sudo apt-get install python-setuptools python-pygame python-opengl \
      python-gst0.10 python-enchant gstreamer0.10-plugins-good cython python-dev \
      build-essential libgl1-mesa-dev libgles2-mesa-dev

.. _dev-install:

Installing Kivy for Development
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now that you've installed all the required dependencies, it's time to
download and compile a development version of Kivy::

    $ # Download Kivy from GitHub
    $ git clone git://github.com/tito/kivy.git
    $ cd kivy

    $ # Compile:
    $ python setup.py build_ext --inplace

If you have the ``make`` command available, you can also use the
following shortcut to compile (does the same as the last two commands)::

    $ make build

If you want to modify the Kivy codebase itself,
set up the `PYTHONPATH environment variable <http://docs.python.org/tutorial/modules.html#the-module-search-path>`_
to point at your clone.
This way you don't have to install (``setup.py install``) after every tiny
modification. Python will instead import Kivy from your clone.

Or, if you don't want to make any changes to Kivy itself, you can also run
(as admin, e.g. with sudo)::

    $ python setup.py install

If you want to contribute code (patches, new features) to the Kivy
codebase, please read :ref:`contributing`.

Commit message:

doc: push installation instructions for windows / macosx / ubuntu

doc/sources/guide/installation.rst, after:

.. _installation:

Installation
============

We try not to reinvent the wheel but bring something innovative to the
market. As a consequence, we're focused on our own code and use already
existing, high-qualitative third-party libraries where possible.
For the rich set of features that Kivy offers, several other libraries are
required. If you do not use a specific feature (e.g. video playback) you
don't need the corresponding dependency, however.
That said, there are one dependency that Kivy **does** require:
`Cython <http://cython.org>`_.
In addition, you need a `Python <http://python.org/>`_ 2.x (**not**  3.x)
interpreter. If you want to enable features like windowing (i.e., open a Window),
audio/video playback or spelling correction, you must install other
dependencies. For these, we recommend `Pygame <http://pygame.org>`_, `Gst-Python
<http://www.gstreamer.net/modules/gst-python.html>`_ and `Enchant
<http://www.rfk.id.au/software/pyenchant/>`_, respectively.

Other optional libraries (mutually interchangable) are:

    * `OpenCV 2.0 <http://sourceforge.net/projects/opencvlibrary/>`_: Camera input.
    * `PIL <http://www.pythonware.com/products/pil/index.htm>`_: Image and text display.
    * `PyCairo <http://www.cairographics.org/pycairo/>`_: Text display.
    * `PyEnchant <http://www.rfk.id.au/software/pyenchant/>`_: Spelling correction.
    * `Pygame <http://www.pygame.org>`_ : Window creation, image and text display, audio playback.
    * `PyGST <http://gstreamer.freedesktop.org/ + http://pygstdocs.berlios.de/>`_: Audio/video playback and camera input.


Stable version
--------------

The latest stable version can be found on the Kivy's website at http://kivy.org/#downloads
Select the installations instructions for your platform:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    installation-window.rst
    installation-macosx.rst
    installation-ubuntu.rst
    installation-android.rst

Development Version
-------------------

The development version is for developers and testers. Note that when
running a development version, you're running potentially broken code at
your own risk.
To use the development version, you will first need to install the
dependencies. Afterwards you have to set up Kivy on your computer in a way
that allows for easy development. For that, please see our
:ref:`contributing` document.

Installing Dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To install Kivy's dependencies, follow the guide below for your platform.

Ubuntu
++++++

For Ubuntu, simply enter the following command that will install all
necessary packages:

::

    $ sudo apt-get install python-setuptools python-pygame python-opengl \
      python-gst0.10 python-enchant gstreamer0.10-plugins-good cython python-dev \
      build-essential libgl1-mesa-dev libgles2-mesa-dev

.. _dev-install:

Installing Kivy for Development
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now that you've installed all the required dependencies, it's time to
download and compile a development version of Kivy::

    $ # Download Kivy from GitHub
    $ git clone git://github.com/tito/kivy.git
    $ cd kivy

    $ # Compile:
    $ python setup.py build_ext --inplace

If you have the ``make`` command available, you can also use the
following shortcut to compile (does the same as the last two commands)::

    $ make build

If you want to modify the Kivy codebase itself,
set up the `PYTHONPATH environment variable <http://docs.python.org/tutorial/modules.html#the-module-search-path>`_
to point at your clone.
This way you don't have to install (``setup.py install``) after every tiny
modification. Python will instead import Kivy from your clone.

Or, if you don't want to make any changes to Kivy itself, you can also run
(as admin, e.g. with sudo)::

    $ python setup.py install

If you want to contribute code (patches, new features) to the Kivy
codebase, please read :ref:`contributing`.
