doc/sources/guide/quickstart.rst, before:

.. _quickstart:

Quickstart
==========

This page explains how to create a simple Kivy *"Hello world"* program.
This assumes you already have Kivy installed. If you do not, head over to the
:ref:`installation` section. We also assume basic `Python <http://docs.python.org/tutorial/>`_
2.x knowledge.


Create an application
---------------------

The base code for creating an application looks like this:

.. sourcecode:: python

    from kivy.app import App
    from kivy.uix.button import Button

    class MyApp(App):
        def build(self):
            return Button(text='Hello World')

    MyApp().run()

Save it as `myapp.py` and run it with your Python interpreter ::

    $ python myapp.py

A window should open, showing a sole button (with the label 'Hello World') that
covers the entire window's area. That's all there is to it.

So what does that code do?

 #. First, we import the :class:`~kivy.app.App` class, to be able to
    subclass it.
    By subclassing this class, your own class gains several features that
    we already developed for you to make sure it will be recognized by
    Kivy.
 #. Next, we import the :class:`~kivy.uix.button.Button` class, to be able to
    create an instance of a button with a custom label.
 #. Then, we create our application class, based on the App class.
    We extend the :meth:`~kivy.app.App.build` function to be able to return an
    instance of :class:`~kivy.uix.button.Button`. This instance will be used
    as the root of the widget tree (because we returned it).
 #. Finally, we call :meth:`~kivy.app.App.run` on our application instance to
    launch the Kivy process with our application inside.

Commit message:

fixes quickstart documentation to head over installation/how to run app for each platform

doc/sources/guide/quickstart.rst, after:

.. _quickstart:

Quickstart
==========

This page explains how to create a simple Kivy *"Hello world"* program.
This assumes you already have Kivy installed. If you do not, head over to the
:ref:`installation` section. We also assume basic `Python <http://docs.python.org/tutorial/>`_
2.x knowledge.


Create an application
---------------------

The base code for creating an application looks like this:

.. sourcecode:: python

    from kivy.app import App
    from kivy.uix.button import Button

    class MyApp(App):
        def build(self):
            return Button(text='Hello World')

    MyApp().run()

Save it as `myapp.py`.

Now, to run your application, depending of your platform, you can :

    Linux
        Follow the instructions for :ref:`running Kivy application on Linux <linux-run-app>`::

            $ python myapp.py

    Windows
        Follow the instructions for :ref:`running Kivy application on Windows <windows-run-app>`::
            
            $ python myapp.py
            # or
            C:\appdir>kivy.bat myapp.py

    MacOSX
        Follow the instructions for :ref:`running Kivy application on MacOSX <macosx-run-app>`::

            $ kivy myapp.py

    Android
        You application need some complementary files to be able to run on Android.
        See :doc:`android` for more informations.

A window should open, showing a sole button (with the label 'Hello World') that
covers the entire window's area. That's all there is to it.

So what does that code do?

 #. First, we import the :class:`~kivy.app.App` class, to be able to
    subclass it.
    By subclassing this class, your own class gains several features that
    we already developed for you to make sure it will be recognized by
    Kivy.
 #. Next, we import the :class:`~kivy.uix.button.Button` class, to be able to
    create an instance of a button with a custom label.
 #. Then, we create our application class, based on the App class.
    We extend the :meth:`~kivy.app.App.build` function to be able to return an
    instance of :class:`~kivy.uix.button.Button`. This instance will be used
    as the root of the widget tree (because we returned it).
 #. Finally, we call :meth:`~kivy.app.App.run` on our application instance to
    launch the Kivy process with our application inside.
