doc/sources/gettingstarted/intro.rst, before:

Introduction
------------

.. container:: title

    Start Developing Kivy Apps right away!

Creating Kivy apps is fun and enriching. This guide should be the perfect
starting point to get you on the right track for app development.

.. note::
    Kivy is based on Python, `basic <http://docs.python.org/tutorial/>`_ `python <http://www.korokithakis.net/tutorials/python/>`_ `knowlege <http://learnpythonthehardway.org/>`_ is assumed in this introduction.

.. image:: ../images/gs-introduction.png
    :align: center
    :height: 255px

On your computer, you can create apps that run on:

- Desktop computer: MacOSX, Linux, Windows.
- iOs Devices: iPad, iPhone
- Android devices: Tablets, Phones.
- And any others touch enabled professional/homebrew devices supporting TUIO.

Kivy empowers you with the freedom of writing your code once and having it run as is on different platforms.

Follow this guide to get the tools you need, understand the major concepts and
best practices, as this is an introduction, pointers will be provided at the
end of each section to find more information.

As you proceed through the guide, you will, using Kivy:

- **Learn**:    The basics of programming with the Kivy language.
- **Explore**:  The Kivy framework.
- **Create**:   simple cross-platform app.
- **Package**:  for your choice of platform.

Finally, you will learn how to **Deploy** on a device of your choice.

Each section of the guide introduces a new topic, trying to give you enough
information to get started and links to related articles for more in-depth
explanations. When you are done with this guide, you'll be able to develop
Kivy apps and will know where to look for informations for the more challenging
stuff your innovative applications will require.

Enough with the introductions, let's get down to business.

Commit message:

iLanguage & editing changes for gettingstarted/ doc files.

doc/sources/gettingstarted/intro.rst, after:

Introduction
------------

.. container:: title

    Start Developing Kivy Apps right away!

Creating Kivy apps is fun and rewarding. This guide should be the perfect
starting point to get you on the right track for app development. You will require a basic knowledge of Python 
to follow this introduction. If you need more background, you might be interested in these tutorials:

* `The Python Tutorial (at the Python website) <http://docs.python.org/tutorial/>`_ 
* `Learn Python in 10 minutes <http://www.korokithakis.net/tutorials/python/>`_
* `Learn Python the hard way <http://learnpythonthehardway.org/>`_ 

.. image:: ../images/gs-introduction.png
    :align: center
    :height: 255px

On your computer, you can create apps that run on:

- Desktop computers: MacOSX, Linux, Windows.
- iOs Devices: iPad, iPhone
- Android devices: Tablets, phones.
- Any other touch-enabled professional/homebrew devices supporting TUIO (Tangible User Interface Objects).

Kivy empowers you with the freedom of writing your code once and having it run as-is on different platforms.

Follow this guide to get the tools you need, understand the major concepts and
learn best practices. As this is an introduction, pointers to more information will be provided at the
end of each section.

You may also want to look at the :doc:`/gettingstarted/index` guide.

As you proceed through the guide, you will, using Kivy:

- **Learn**:    The basics of programming with the Kivy language.
- **Explore**:  The Kivy framework.
- **Create**:   simple cross-platform app.
- **Package**:  for your choice of platform.

Finally, you will learn how to **Deploy** on a device of your choice.

Each section of the guide introduces a new topic, trying to give you enough
information to get started and links to related articles for more in-depth
explanations. When you are done with this guide, you'll be able to develop
Kivy apps and you will know where to look for information for the more challenging
stuff your innovative applications will require.

Enough introductions, let's get down to business.
