doc/sources/contact.rst, before:

.. _contact:

Contact Us
==========

You can contact us in several different ways:

    Issue Tracker
        If you found an issue with the code or have a feature request,
        please see our `issue tracker <https://github.com/tito/kivy/issues>`_.
        If there is no issue yet that matches your inquiry, feel free to
        create a new one. Please make sure you receive the mails that
        github sends if we comment on the issue in case we need more
        information.
        For bugs, please provide all the information necessary, like the
        operating system you're using, the **full error message** or any
        other logs, a description what you did to trigger the bug and what
        the actual bug was, and anything else that might be of interest.
        We can only help if you precisely tell us what the actual problem
        is.

    Mail
        We have a mailing list for developers
        `on Google Groups <https://groups.google.com/group/kivy-dev>`_.

    IRC
        #kivy on irc.freenode.net

        IRC is great for real-time communication, but please make sure to
        **wait** after you asked your question.
        If you just join, ask and quit we have **no way** of knowing who
        you were and where we're supposed to send our answer to.
        Also, keep in mind we're mostly based in Europe, so take into
        account any timezone issues.
        If you're unlucky more than once, try the mailing list.

        If you don't have an IRC client, you can also use
        `Freenode's web chat <http://webchat.freenode.net/>`_, but please,
        don't close the browser window too soon. Just enter ``#kivy`` in
        the channels field.

Commit message:

Docs: 	- Add users mailing list 	- Reorder: Put FAQ at a later point 	- Reorder: Put architectural overview into programming guide

doc/sources/contact.rst, after:

.. _contact:

Contact Us
==========

You can contact us in several different ways:

    Issue Tracker
        If you found an issue with the code or have a feature request,
        please see our `issue tracker <https://github.com/tito/kivy/issues>`_.
        If there is no issue yet that matches your inquiry, feel free to
        create a new one. Please make sure you receive the mails that
        github sends if we comment on the issue in case we need more
        information.
        For bugs, please provide all the information necessary, like the
        operating system you're using, the **full error message** or any
        other logs, a description what you did to trigger the bug and what
        the actual bug was, and anything else that might be of interest.
        We can only help if you precisely tell us what the actual problem
        is.

    Mail
        For users of our framework, there is a mailing list for support
        inquiries `on Google Groups <https://groups.google.com/group/kivy-users>`_.
        Use this list if you have issues with your Kivy-based app.

        Also, we have a mailing list for matters that deal with development
        of the actual Kivy framework code
        `on Google Groups <https://groups.google.com/group/kivy-dev>`_.

    IRC
        #kivy on irc.freenode.net

        IRC is great for real-time communication, but please make sure to
        **wait** after you asked your question.
        If you just join, ask and quit we have **no way** of knowing who
        you were and where we're supposed to send our answer to.
        Also, keep in mind we're mostly based in Europe, so take into
        account any timezone issues.
        If you're unlucky more than once, try the mailing list.

        If you don't have an IRC client, you can also use
        `Freenode's web chat <http://webchat.freenode.net/>`_, but please,
        don't close the browser window too soon. Just enter ``#kivy`` in
        the channels field.
