doc/sources/installation/installation-macosx.rst, before:

.. _installation_macosx:

Installation on MacOSX
======================

.. note::

    This method has only been tested on Mac OSX 10.6 Snow Leopard 64-bit.
    For versions prior to 10.6 or 10.6 32-bit, you have to install the
    components yourself. We suggest using
    `homebrew <http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/>`_ to do that.

For Mac OS X 10.6 and later, we provide a Kivy.app with all dependencies
bundled. Download it from our `Download Page <http://kivy.org/#download>`_.
It comes as a .dmg 
file that contains:

    * Kivy.app
    * Readme.txt
    * An Examples folder
    * A script to install a `kivy` command for shell usage

To install Kivy, you must:

    1. Download the latest version from http://kivy.org/#download
    2. Double-click to open it
    3. Drag the Kivy.app into your Applications folder
    4. Make sure to read the Readme.txt

Start any Kivy Application
----------------------------

You can run any Kivy application by simply dragging the application's main file
onto the Kivy.app icon. Just try this with any python file in the examples folder.

.. _macosx-run-app:

Start from the Command Line
---------------------------

If you want to use Kivy from the command line, double-click the ``Make Symlinks`` script
after you have dragged the Kivy.app into the Applications folder. To test if it worked:

    #. Open Terminal.app and enter::
    
           $ kivy
        
       You should get a Python prompt.
        
    #. In there, type::

           $ import kivy
           
       If it just goes to the next line without errors, it worked.
       
    #. Running any Kivy application from the command line is now simply a matter
       of executing a command like the following::
       
           $ kivy yourapplication.py

Commit message:

doc: installation instructions for development version from github on mac osx closes #569

doc/sources/installation/installation-macosx.rst, after:

.. _installation_macosx:

Installation on MacOSX
======================

.. note::

    This method has only been tested on Mac OSX 10.6 Snow Leopard 64-bit.
    For versions prior to 10.6 or 10.6 32-bit, you have to install the
    components yourself. We suggest using
    `homebrew <http://mxcl.github.com/homebrew/>`_ to do that.

For Mac OS X 10.6 and later, we provide a Kivy.app with all dependencies
bundled. Download it from our `Download Page <http://kivy.org/#download>`_.
It comes as a .dmg 
file that contains:

    * Kivy.app
    * Readme.txt
    * An Examples folder
    * A script to install a `kivy` command for shell usage

To install Kivy, you must:

    1. Download the latest version from http://kivy.org/#download
    2. Double-click to open it
    3. Drag the Kivy.app into your Applications folder
    4. Make sure to read the Readme.txt

Installing the dev version
--------------------------

Step 1. Follow the procedure mentioned above to install kivy stable.
step 2  Open a terminal and type the following commands into it.

    cd /Applications/Kivy.app/Contents/Resources/
    mv kivy kivy_stable
    git clone http://github.com/kivy/kivy
    cd kivy
    make

That's it. You now have the latest kivy from github.

Start any Kivy Application
----------------------------

You can run any Kivy application by simply dragging the application's main file
onto the Kivy.app icon. Just try this with any python file in the examples folder.

.. _macosx-run-app:

Start from the Command Line
---------------------------

If you want to use Kivy from the command line, double-click the ``Make Symlinks`` script
after you have dragged the Kivy.app into the Applications folder. To test if it worked:

    #. Open Terminal.app and enter::
    
           $ kivy
        
       You should get a Python prompt.
        
    #. In there, type::

           $ import kivy
           
       If it just goes to the next line without errors, it worked.
       
    #. Running any Kivy application from the command line is now simply a matter
       of executing a command like the following::
       
           $ kivy yourapplication.py
